I really started covering these
companies in the 96 period of time. It
was very clear these were groundbreaking
technologies and the people doing it
were very young and very ill informed.
Cara Swisser, podcaster, author, someone
who's been covering tech and Silicon
Valley [music] since the early 1990s.
Real serious wealth creates real
problems for people. They isolate
themselves in their wealth. They didn't
have any safety [music] thoughts in
their brains. They never felt unsafe and
therefore they created systems that were
easily abused and easily gamed and they
didn't care.
From Bloomberg Weekend, this is the
Michelle [music] Hussein show.
Carus Swisser first started watching
startups in California as a journalist
many years ago when the idea that these
companies would make any money at all
was curious and frankly entirely
unproven. That head start has meant that
she's seen the entire trajectory of how
Silicon Valley ended up producing
companies that are cornerstones of the
US economy today and really important to
all of our lives. She has known all the
key players from Steve Jobs to the
present day and she's built a reputation
for being unafraid of what she says to
them. Some of them are probably quite
afraid of her. Not that they'd ever
admit it. But she's with us on the
Michelle Hussein show to talk about what
she's seeing right now and what she
thinks is around the corner. So here is
Cara Swisser talking to me. Ka, you have
seen the story of tech companies up
close for so long. Yes.
>> As a new year begins, tell us therefore
what is on your mind and the areas or
the people that you think we should be
watching for the breakthroughs or the
big moments of 2026.
Well, for this coming year, I think a
lot of focus will be on whether big tech
continues its hijgemony, especially
influence with Donald Trump. Obviously,
the midterms are coming up here and the
tech industry has been running wild in
the Trump administration, whether it's
crypto, whether it's this recent
executive order about AI, which will not
hold up in court. But they, you know,
they've gotten what they wanted and
they've seen a huge runup in their stock
prices because they're basically running
the stock market. So a question of what
will happen to valuations whether there
will be an AI bust I think everyone will
be focused in on it has a lot of echoes
to the internet crash and it happened
right after the new year then too and
sort of was a darker winter for tech at
that time. So that's one question. The
other is IPOs. There's a lot of possible
IPOs coming up whether it's Stripe or
Open AI or SpaceX and things like that
and that could really invigorate the
tech system and where are the valuations
of those but I think probably most
people are focusing on whether AI will
be a bust whether it's a bubble.
>> So you are taking the thought that this
could be an AI bubble seriously. You do
not think that that's something we
should disregard?
>> No, not at all. Why would you disregard
it? I mean it's stupid. These buildouts
are enormous and the question is where's
the business behind it and how patient
investors are going to be about it. It's
not to say that AI isn't important and
critical going forward and it is the
industry that is the next iteration or
the next Cambrian explosion but these
they may be ahead of their skis right
with these too many data centers too
many back and forth deals feels a little
roundty in a lot of ways that are
holding each other's valuations up. I
think Nvidia has an outsized role here
the way Cisco did many in the first
internet. So you're going to have to
wait and see if companies so far seem to
be buying and I'm not talking about just
non- tech companies think AI is
important. There might be a point where
they're like maybe we don't need to
spend this much on this technology now
to get the savings we need. And is there
something circular that's dangerous for
the industry which is that they need the
IPOs to get the investment to get money
flowing in? But the IPOs and going
public also puts further pressure on
them and greater pressure on them to
achieve the returns.
>> Well, they've done plenty well being
private like these valuations and
they're for sale. You can buy and sell
stock, you know, on the private market
of these things. I mean, I think the
most interesting IPO would be the SpaceX
IPO because I think it's $1.5 trillion.
It didn't grow that much last year. I
think it went from 13 to 15 billion. I
think it's correct. So, it didn't grow
as much as say Open AI did, but right
now, not forever. It's going to own
space. I think it's got 90% of the
rocket launches here, some crazy number.
So, that's a separate IPO that's
different. The only thing is related to
Elon Musk who also has to drag around
Twitter and Grock behind him and Tesla
of course, which even though the stock
has managed to stay afloat, the business
is disintegrating, you know, at a very
rapid pace. He provided one of my most
memorable, if toughest moments of 2025
when I had a long conversation with him.
>> I saw it.
>> Some of this certainly came up then.
>> Yeah, it's it's pointless to interview
him right now. He's not there. He's
there to be a troll. That's really It's
pointless. He doesn't say anything of
any substance. He just says makes things
up
>> and he avoids it most most of the time.
Right. Other than in a very friendly
setting.
>> Yeah. Exactly. I just want to get one
bigger point before we pivot more into
you, which is that is there a lack of
big enough ideas? I mean, Elon Musk has
certainly had them, but overall, you
have said recently that in a way the
industry is below its potential that
people aren't necessarily solving the
big problems of our age. Well, there's a
lot of promise with AI, right? I've just
finished a documentary about health and
AI. Not just AI, but longevity. And AI
plays a big role in terms of drug
discovery. I was just at a lab in
University of Pennsylvania and they're
using it for vaccines. The problem is
the Trump administration's cutting money
to those places and so they're all going
to Canada. So that's who will benefit
from this. But I think there's a lot of
promise of where it could go, right? In
terms of not just job destruction, but
job creation too and all kinds of new
and fresh ideas getting forward. Um the
question is is it fast enough or is it
more of a slow burn the way electricity
was? Electricity didn't change
everything overnight. And the question
is, how do we adapt it? And I don't
think we have enough imagination to know
right now because like at the beginning
of the internet when I started covering
it in the early '9s, you didn't know
there was going to be Uber or Airbnb or,
you know, Google didn't exist until
almost the turn of the century. So, we
just don't know where this is going. But
it's certainly promising. There's no
question about it.
>> Take me back then to your own
relationship with the industry, if you
like. I was struck by the words in your
book where you characterized it as a
meat cute love story that turned sour.
Let's do the love story then. Do you
remember sending your first email? Do
you remember the first key internet
moment you had?
>> Yeah. When I downloaded a Calvin and
Hobbs comic collection on on a
university server. I was at Duke and I
messed up because at the time you didn't
have that much speed and so the person
who was running it was at me because I
clogged it up. But I was like, I
downloaded a book. And he was like, so
what? I'm like, so what? Everything can
be downloaded. I remember thinking
everything that can be digitized would
be digitized. And then my imagination
took off like, what else can be
digitized? Well, my entire workplace
when I looked around and there was still
paper there like what's paper doing
here? Why do we need paper? Why do we
need phones on the desks? Why do we need
to be at the desks? You know, why can't
we be on the move? And I was a very
early user of cell phones. I was a very
early user of a lot of this stuff. And
some of it was silly, but most of it you
could see it shifting and changing how
we work and live. And so it was really
like probably being around when the car
or plane was invented, right? Like wow.
Like wo.
>> Would I understand you correctly if I
say that I think that you loved the the
products, the technology, the promise of
the technology, some of the products,
but you weren't convinced by a lot of
the people even early on. And I think
lots of people you're sitting with when
you end up moving to Silicon Valley and
they're making these big promises, we're
going to change the world. Some of them
do, a lot of them don't. Right. I think
very early on, one of my first articles
when I was at the Washington Post
covering AOL, right, because it was in
the area, it was a local company. But
when I moved to the journal where I
really started covering these companies
in the 96 period of time, this is 1996
kids for it's way in the last century.
Um but when I started doing that it was
very clear one that these were
groundbreaking technologies and number
two the people doing it were very young
and very illinformed. And so what was
striking to me and one of the first
stories I did for the journal was I
think it was the top 10 lies Silicon
Valley people have told me since I got
here. And one of them was we're in this
together. The other was we don't care
about money. It's all about community.
There are no titles here. It was all a
lie. They all were very monarchical. you
know, they'd have hoodies, but they'd be
like cashmere hoodies. There was always
such a disconnect. We don't care about
those things. And of course, every one
of them ended up with a private plane
and a private chef. I mean, look, real
serious wealth creates real problems for
people. They isolate themselves in their
wealth essentially. And so, you could
see the the warping of them right from
the get-go or as it was starting because
they love to tell lies about things. Um,
most of them were harmless at the time,
but later not so harmless. But you would
call them lies, not just hype. You would
say they were saying things that were
not true.
>> No, they believed it. They were lying to
themselves. I had covered other
industries and no one ever they had an
evangelical bent to them, right? You
know, I suspect it was probably like
this when you had the founders of
Hollywood, you know, they started it and
so they really had a real belief system.
The finance guys were just like, "We're
here to make money." I was like, "Okay,
got it. Thank you." Like essentially,
they weren't there to change the world.
There was a lot of discussion about
changing the world and it was very
religious almost it became increasingly
religious and it's not religion like
Catholicism but it kind of is. It was an
ethos and a culture that was really um I
having studied propaganda for years it
felt a lot like that. I did that at
Georgetown like watching propaganda move
and then when they had the tools of
propaganda which was to weaponize and
exploit information well then that the
story changed really quickly.
>> Who do you mean Caro when you say they?
Zuckerberg, you know, someone who had
built a worldwide network of information
and largely on other people's ideas
sometimes, although give it to him. He's
an excellent he's sort of like Bill
Gates in that regard. Although Bill
Gates became a better person and I have
great hopes for Mark Zuckerberg someday.
Um, but you know, this this sort of idea
that it's really good that we let people
do whatever they want and give them all
the information and there's not going to
be a problem. It was a na naite and an
ignorance of history of everything else.
And a pretend that it wasn't his fault.
You know, I'm sorry I made this gun. I
didn't know people would get shot by it.
Like, it's not my fault people get shot
by my guns. I'm like, but they're
designed to shoot people. Like, several
different interviews showed that really
that I did with him over the years. He
doesn't speak to me now. I know you had
a you had a couple of like exchanges
with him that were really striking for
different reasons. Yeah, I remember the
period in 2011 when the Arab Spring
happened. I did a documentary called How
Facebook Changed the World.
>> Yeah.
>> I slightly cringe when I think about the
title of that now because at that time
it well social media was we saw it as
benign at that time. It was connecting
people who were not being connected in
other ways. 2016 the US election it's a
different story by then
>> right which is why I wonder perhaps it
is not all their fault. There is
something of the gun argument that the
technology was also used in nefarious
ways albeit obviously always had that
potential. The fault would be our
regulators who decided to let them do
whatever they wanted. They have a
product that has a lot of safety issues
around it and they never wanted to
address any of it and nor did anyone
force them to. So you could blame
citizens I guess if we could have risen
up against them and that just doesn't
happen. But our legislators never made a
move around privacy. I mean, I used to
write about this all. I did a internet
bill of rights. Here's 10 things that
will not stop innovation and are
important for the safety of consumers.
You could have seen this stuff coming.
Like, it wasn't like it was that hard to
understand propaganda. You know, you
could just study Hitler, study
Mussolini, study any of the autocrats.
There's a playbook that's really quite
quite robust over the many centuries of
humanity. So, I think that they didn't
have any safety thoughts in their
brains. They never felt unsafe and
therefore they created systems that were
easily abused and easily gamed and they
didn't care. Like if you designed a car
with this many lack of safety features,
you know what happened to the car
industry? They had to put seat belts in.
They had to put airbags in. That's not
to decry the car. Some people don't like
cars. I happen to. But, you know, I
think it's safer with seat belts and and
airbags. And I'm sure the people in the
car industry would have preferred not to
put that in. It's a big cost. So that
they just didn't care about the
consequences and I've never seen an
industry without any regulation
whatsoever and have caused us great
harm. That's all I just compare it to
other industries. All those other
industries would do the same thing. If
pharmaceutical companies are allowed to
um pollute rivers, they certainly would.
They have. There's histories of that.
Watch Aaron Brockovich, you know, like
they just do it until they can't. How do
you think you changed in this period of
covering the industry? Did you yourself
have massive belief at the beginning?
Clearly a lot of enthusiasm because you
saw the potential.
>> I love technology.
>> Did you become cynical along the way as
you saw some of these characters? I
mean, there were others, weren't there,
like Steve Jobs.
>> He actually thought about safety. He
thought about privacy. He thought about
like he was an adult, so when you said
it to him, he didn't act like you had
like stuck him in an eye with a dry
stick. You know, he could have a
discussion about it. That's why I guess
it's a low bar, but you know, every time
you say something tough to Mark
Zuckerberg, he looks like you killed
him. Like, oh, how dare you say this to
me, sir. If you study technology
history, electricity had plenty of
problems with safety. Every single
industry has this tension. It's just
that they're the richest people on earth
with the most expensive companies and
it's going to be very hard to pull them
back especially because they're being
facilitated by a president who openly
accepts donations and I'm using that
that donations is doing a lot of work
there. Um who is part of the system.
They've made $5 billion that Trump's in
cryptocurrency over the past couple of
months. That's pretty good. When you
lived in Silicon Valley, which you did
for a long time, and your former wife
was was at Google, you socialized with
the founders. [clears throat]
No, no, you were at the same parties.
>> There were a lot of work parties. Yes.
They weren't my friends. I mean, maybe
one or two became friends, but uh I
can't think of Well, lower way lower
down, but we didn't hang out and, you
know, massage each other's feet or
anything, but I knew them really well
and they were accessible. And then they
weren't obviously a lot of them. Some of
them were, some of them weren't. I
worked for the Wall Street Journal by
this time, so they really wanted to know
me because they were building their
businesses. And the more they could
interact at the time, the journal make
could make like Walt Mossberg could make
or break products, right? If he said, "I
didn't like this, I did like this." I
was under no illusion that they were my
friends though, I have to say. And nor
did I want them to be.
>> He was a legendary columnist who was
also a mentor to you and you were
>> a partner with me. Right. Exactly. So
when you think about the change, I just
interviewed Sam Harris. The tech guys
loved him. I would say he has not
changed. They have changed and he is
calling them out now. Like T Sam Harris
was all mobbed up with those people. I
mean they liked him. They liked his work
and he just kept saying what you're
doing is in incomprehensible and heinous
and then they got mad at him for being
normally critical which is what he was
of everything. Same thing with Yval
Harrari who wrote Sapiens. They couldn't
get enough of Sapiens and Yvalar. Then
he wrote a book that said, "These
information systems are not unlike the
propaganda from the Middle Ages that
killed a lot of women." And then they're
like, "What are you talking about?" So I
don't think you've all, myself, or Sam
have changed. They have changed.
>> There does seem to be a common thread of
being very thin skinned.
>> Yes. Yes. Yes. Well, you got the big
one. You got Elon.
>> But you did think he was different. I
think
>> I did. And he was, let me say, I feel
like that's the one I got wrong.
Completely wrong. Um, not completely
wrong. Because look what Tesla did was
astonishing. Same thing with SpaceX. He
was the earliest person I talked to
artificial intell now it's been around.
Artificial intelligence has been around
from the 50s but he was the first person
to talk about the importance and danger
of it. First person I talked to about it
in Silicon Valley. So until his most
recent personal toils which I think have
been well reported. Um I think he had a
he had a vision that was big and then uh
who knows what happened. the
hatefulness, the obsession with trans
people, the drug use, everything else
just got out of
I don't know. Howard Hughes comes to
mind when I think of him. So, let's go
more into then politics and the
relationship with the president. Is that
political expediency? Is it a version of
okay, it doesn't take just a donation
now. You've got to show up to the
inauguration. You've got to
>> sit around the table while uh while the
president talks about you. Is it
expediency the way tech is behaved? Or
is it a fundamental belief that Trump is
good for business?
>> Both. I would say both. I think they
don't mind doing it. They kind of like
it because they don't like being
insulted by the press. The press is such
mean to me. Like when they say mean to
me, I'm sort of like, are you 12? Like
I'm asking critical questions. So what?
Wake up. Like I think one of the things
is they get to do what they want when
they want to do it. They're a little
like I want it now. like from Willy
Wonka, if you remember, Veruka salt.
It's like a bunch of veruka. I want I
want that squirrel right now who who
test the nuts or whatever. They just
want it now and they want it and so
they're willing to stand there. Now, a
lot of them do think the Biden
administration wasn't as pro tech and
they have some argument to be made, but
the reaction is a massive overreaction,
right? I didn't get invited to the White
House. Oh, really? Like that was Elon's
entire shift to Trump was I didn't get
invited to some stupid car summit that
the Biden administration had. I mean
really he went on and on about that.
That's the last bunch of communications
we had was I was like calm the down
dude. Like what's the deal? But I get
it. It was an overreaction. But then
they saw someone willing to take their
money in a more explicit way either
through cryptocurrency or sweetheart
deals. I mean Tim Cook Tim Cook Steve
Jobs would have died. would never have
brought Donald Trump a golden statue.
Not on any planet Earth that I would
know of. He would be happy to talk to
him. Steve often engaged with people he
didn't like or he had difficulty with
like Rupert Murdoch and he talked a lot
cuz he was hoping to shift him a little
bit in some way. But the idea that you
could bring someone a gold statue and
then get a tariff break. I mean, they'll
do it. I wouldn't do it. Maybe you
wouldn't do it, but they'll do it
because they think shareholders win
overall. And so I'm not surprised by any
of it.
>> How much of what's happening now do you
think is about the influence of Peter
Teal who was in a proTrump position for
a much longer time?
>> He always was.
>> Yeah. Not even before that. He was
conservative for a long time. No shift
from him. He's the same.
>> But is it partly his influence behind
the scenes or the people he's helped
bring up like JD Vance for example? Is
there a link from that to the roots of
the
>> Vance is an unusual character cuz he was
so anti-Trump. I was in the presence of
him where he was insulting Trump so much
one time I said you know what he does
have some good characteristics if I'm
the one saying don't be so mean to Trump
but you know it's like something's arai.
What year was that? Do you remember?
>> Oh when he was working for Steve Casease
I think years ago. He was he was in
tech. You know he he's a different
character which I who I just don't
understand in any way. I mean I do in
some ways. um given his background. But
I think one of the things that's
interesting about them all is that they
have become like Peter was always like
that. And if you read his old books,
it's not unsimilar to what he did in
college. He did some, you know, very
conservative from the get-go. A couple
of them were also conservative, I would
say. Some of them I didn't even know
what their politic Mark Anderson, I had
no idea what his politics was. He
dabbled wherever, wherever his interest
was. Some of them are just doing it for
expediency. I would say Tim Cook, he
doesn't want tariffs, so he'll do what
it takes. He'll do the minimum, but
he'll do it. Or is Sam Alman. Um, I
think the problem is when anyone gets in
their way and then someone gets out of
their way, they like the person who gets
out of their way more than they should.
And I guess if that's your only value,
sure. You mentioned Samman. I wonder
whether you see anything different in
the younger generation of tech leaders.
I talked to Mustapa Sulman of Microsoft
the other day, who is
>> He's really smart. smart and resolute
about AI needs to serve humans and does
that give you some hope for the future
of the industry? Is Sam Alman in the
same sort of category?
>> I don't know because Sam Alman has also
exhibited a lot of stuff that's
troubling like the same stuff right and
I like Sam personally and he certainly
does respond but he's going to do
anything it takes to make open eye a
win. He's incredibly aggressive. And so,
you know, he's in a jam because Google
has decided to be Google again and his
is really coming on hard with Gemini.
And OpenAI, what I always say, and I'm I
think he hates it every time I say it,
but is is is OpenAI Netscape or Google?
Which one? Because that Netscape, which
was started by Mark Andre and others,
really was it until it wasn't, right?
Until Microsoft came and mowed them
down. And so that may be happening to
open AI right now even though it's the
most popular by far. um these things you
know the planes are covered with the
bodies of tech pioneers
>> isn't it car because the industry moves
towards dominance right there was a time
when there were so many browsers and now
that is largely Chrome Google Chrome's
market there's also the cost now the
cost of starting you couldn't have
started an Uber now it would have been
owned by Google Jeff Bezos would not
have been able to start Amazon today
because the cost with the compute power
it's just so money losing I mean
internet companies used to lose money
and then some of them made money but now
they really lose money. Like it's it's
trillions of dollars. It's kind of you
sit there and you're like, whoa, they
lost that much every quarter and they're
still doing. And the question is,
if you're saying someday we're going to
get to California and own California.
That's a good thing to So, let's spend
any anything it takes to get there. But
only a few of them are going to get
there. That's the thing. And then
they're going to be so big that we won't
be able to control them, which we
already can't. Actually,
>> I do have a very clear memory of
interviewing Jeff Bezos in 2000 or 2001.
>> You're right. When he was
>> selling books, they were doing well. And
he said, "I'm going to make Amazon a
portal where you can buy anything on
it." And I sort of did a not visible,
but sort of the equivalent of an eye
roll thinking I just can't see that day.
Well, anyway, he knew I didn't. But but
the point about dominance. So do you
think that it's unlikely that there will
be a world where there's a market for
chat GPT and Claude and Google Gemini
and Microsoft Copilot?
>> No, they do the same thing.
>> Does only one of those four survive
ultimately?
>> Yeah, they do the same thing. They're
not that different. I think what'll be
interesting is the LLMs that are
specific to industries, right? If you
create your own, like I was just on a
portal. I'm working on this medical
documentary that a company has of my
medical
information, which I can't believe I let
them have it, but there it is. Um, and
it's actually very helpful. It's more
helpful than the doctor and it's
accurate because it's based on my
information and available scientific
information which are is mostly they're
using LLMs that are true, right? They're
they're very selective in terms of the
information they download into it. So
once you start using this stuff on a one
that works and isn't hallucinating and
isn't too solicitous, it's like Google
on steroids, right? A really helpful
Google.
>> Which one do you use?
>> I use chat GPT, but I try them all. I
think Claude is quite good. Um, you sort
of start to get in the usage of
something like you did with Google and
then you don't go. At one point
Microsoft's uh search engine was quite
good. I just didn't use it because I use
the other one, right? I use Google. So I
think you get into a habit and that's
the hope of chat GPT is they can stay
ahead enough in order to but it's hard
to beat Google at being Google right I
don't know it seems like they've got all
the cards including YouTube and some
other businesses what about spatial
intelligence is there a lot of focus on
large language models and many of us
miss this other dimension fee Lee was
obviously she really believes in that
>> she's great I love her she's amazing um
she was one of the early people I talked
to about too because she was doing
imageet. But I think a lot of people
aren't paying attention to robotics as
much. I if I had to say one thing I'm
going to pay a lot of attention to this
year, it's robotics all throughout the
world. And the thing is unfortunately
Elon has hijacked this with his stupid
robots, you know, that have to run. And
like you don't want a robot to run. Like
you want a robot to walk the dog, but
does it have to look like a human? No.
It could be a box that like there you
have to be more creative in how robots
are going to enter our lives in ways
that are not as if we're on Lost in
Space and you know warning Will Robins
that's how our conception is our popular
conception that it has to look like us.
It doesn't. And so I think I years ago I
went to an Amazon warehouse and they had
just bought a company called KA and I
thought oh wow they're a logistics
company now. They're a robot company
because these little ka robots were
moving all these things around and
putting them in the most unlikely ways.
But it was all mathematical like why
there was shampoo next to a book by
Cheryl Samberg next to a this. But it
knew I didn't. A human couldn't do it.
But it did. And it was so much more
efficient. And I thought, oh, you know,
they were trying to show me how many
people were in their warehouses. And I'm
like, you're not going to need any
people here. I could I could see the day
of no people. And they're like, no,
that's not true. And I'm like, oh,
totally. you're going to go for no
people, right? That's where you're
headed. And so I'm fascinated with
robotics and replacing just almost
everything. You mentioned Cheryl
Sandberg, which reminded me that you
remember her.
>> Yeah. Well, I wonder how you see her now
because I know that you had
conversations with her about she was
obviously one of the few women in tech
and really prominent and she wrote
Lean-In. And then in Sarah Win
Williams's recent book, Careless People,
there's a very different picture that
emerges of how supportive or otherwise
the company really was of women having a
family. You know, Sarah Win Williams is
off on a on long business trips while
she's still breastfeeding and being told
that the answer to being a working
mother is to get a Filipino nanny.
>> Well, it'll be interesting historically.
I had a lot of uh sympathy for Cheryl
and then I didn't. I guess um as you say
some of the stories in the book weren't
exactly right, but I do agree with the
careless people idea is that Cheryl and
Mark were careless people and they
didn't seem to care about they would do
this a lot like don't worry about it.
And I'd be like I'm worried about
Russians and bot farms and I'm worried
about information being queered up so
that we don't understand anything and um
I'm worried about propaganda and they'd
be like gh don't worry about it. And
that was the famous interview I had with
Mark where he said, "Holouse deniers
don't mean to lie." It was so striking
to for that level of ignorance to be at
the head of this company. I think Cheryl
did go along with him. She went along to
get along, right? And I don't I think a
lot of people placed the blame on her.
Uh and I would put it on him more than
her, but she was certainly right next to
him doing these things and certainly
could have mitigated it. Or maybe she
couldn't, right? I don't know. I wasn't
there. But she certainly could have left
and said something, but she didn't. So,
>> do you think you learned from your time
in Silicon Valley in terms of the
startup mindset? Because you've had a
really successful business of your own
>> and still am.
>> Yeah. Early adopter of podcasts and
you've owned that space and events. What
did it teach you that you took away?
>> I think I was probably like that before
cuz I was always a difficult employee.
You know, people would tell me things
and I'd be like, "Oh, you're such an
idiot." You've been in that situation,
I'm sure, right? you're such an idiot.
Except I started to say it, right? I was
like, "Oh jeez, did I that just come out
of my mouth to a older white man? Oh
well, too bad." And so I just decided I
was better on my own to make or break
break it for myself. And I actually
turned out I had some good business
sense of what audience wanted. I also do
think I was as I was early to cell
phones or using the internet or using
email. Um, I think I was one of the
first people at the Washington Post to
put an email on my stories because I
wanted to hear from readers, which the
other writers like, why do you want to
hear from them? I'm like, I don't know,
maybe they're smart or something. Um,
but I I was willing to do that stuff.
And so I had already had a risk profile
that was probably higher than other
people. And then I think I really did
see the coming destruction of media as I
started to cover the internet. We had a
classified business at the Washington
Post and it was expensive. the people
were rude that took the ads and it
didn't work. And that was one of the big
pillars. And I was like, the internet,
the digital age is going to change this
so easily. It's going to bring down the
prices. You don't have to talk to anyone
and it works and it doesn't cost
anything. Like it was so obvious to me
at the time. And I kept having those
moments like there was a teletype
machine at the Washington Post that I
wanted to knock over. I was like, "What
is this doing here?" And they're like,
"Just leave it alone." I'm like, "But
this we shouldn't be getting everything
from paper. We should be getting it on
the internet." It went on and on like
that and then I realized I was a
nuisance and I think probably I learned
being a nuisance is a positive thing
from the it's okay if you're a nuisance
and you know in a lot of ways Jeff Bezos
was a nuisance and I mean that as a
compliment not today but back then um
why are we doing it like this and I
think I I got the courage to do that and
then could see the coming decimation of
media so I wanted to be on my own but I
also saw ways to make money too like it
didn't have to be a doom story of media.
You could control it your own way. And
so I just kept shifting and that's what
I do.
>> And we have the word podcasting from the
iPod and Steve Jobs.
>> Yes. The iPod and broadcasting,
>> which is obvious when you say it.
>> Pods. I remember him saying it. I don't
think he was the one that actually did
it, but he said pods broadcasting. Pods
broadcast. And I was like, oh. I was
sitting there. I was like, yes, of
course. I got interested in that because
the relationship between myself and my
phone got rather intimate and I thought,
"Oh, if you're listening to people on
these things, you have a parasocial
relationship," which I think I do with
of my listeners, you know, in a lot of
ways. And I just liked it better. Um,
and I I remember being in a in a subway
in San Francisco and these I usually had
always a white tech guy coming up to me
[clears throat] or occasionally a group
of Indians or Chinese tech guy. They're
all tech guys, right? The tech guys were
always my fans. And they'd come up and
say, "Oh, how was Walt?" or whatever,
whatever they would say. I had a group
of young uh African-American women come
up to me at after I started doing my
podcast and and it was over YouTube. It
wasn't over YouTube, but whatever. It
was over Apple and Spotify, I guess. And
they said, "We love this and we love
when you did this and we love when you
said that to that guy." And they had
started a business. They were
entrepreneurs. It was a I think it was a
fingernail nail business but for women
of color and they were telling me all
about their business and oh we liked
when we learned that and learned that
and I said oh are you reading my website
and they go website? Do you have a
website? They listen to the podcast and
I thought oh it's over. I'm going to
just do podcasting.
>> So you realized at that moment you were
reaching this whole other group of
people who
>> it was but it was it was um it was a
real relationship like I finally had
reached the listen the reader. I wasn't
there was there's a lot of top down with
media rather than on the same level. I
like my audience.
>> So can I cheekily ask you for some
advice then? I'm the opposite of the
early adopter because [laughter] I've
spent most of my career in broadcasting
and now I'm in this space. What should I
do?
>> One, make something um that is useful to
people. And I don't mean like here's 10
a list of 10 like
kiches you should make. Maybe that maybe
you do that. I don't know. But something
that's it has to be useful to people.
The second thing it has to be
interesting and it could be funny, it
could be [clears throat] mind-blowing,
whatever. It has to be interesting. And
the third is you can't get it anywhere
else. Like it can't be copied by AI. It
can't be copied by anything. If you have
those three things, you tend to do
really, really well. But figure out what
you really love to do all day. And if it
happens to be in a broadcast setting,
you do have to be in a studio. But this
is in my house right now. I have a
teleprompter. This cost me a couple
thousand dollars to set up. I got nice
lights over here.
So, do I need CNN or slash whatever? Do
I need a studio? Not really. I could do
a broadcast from here. I think I will.
I'll be Walter Kronhite.
>> This is now
>> as long as there is still an audience
for any of that. As I think we
established through this.
>> Yes. I love what I'm doing.
>> That interview with Elon, I really was
admiring of it. I was like, well done.
You weren't going to win, but well done.
>> You know what I mean? Maybe that's the
most important.
>> You know what? He's impervious. It
doesn't matter. It's You can't talk to a
nar You can't do a good interview with a
toxic narcissist. You can't like Donald
Trump. You can't do one. It's
impossible. What are you going to do?
Wrestle him to the ground? I mean,
seriously,
>> does he ever reach out to you these
days,
>> Elon? No. No. At some point, I bet he
will. Maybe not.
>> Let me end where we began, Cara, and to
say a new year. How about you in this
new year? Do you have a New Year's
resolution? Do you do such things? No, I
don't. I one year one year someone said,
"What's your new new year New Year's
resolution?" I said, "I hope it rains
more." And they're like, "That's not a
resolution." I'm like, "No, I like rain
and it's good for the earth and I hope
it doesn't rain too much." But and
they're like, "That's a bad resolution."
I'm like, "I think it's a great
resolution. I like being in the rain, so
why wouldn't I want more of that?" But
um I I'm spending like I've just
finished this documentary series for CNN
and I'm more interested in the topic,
which is longevity and the uses of tech
to keep everybody healthy, not just the
rich people. Um, I think we're at a cusp
of really saving a lot of lives from
cancer and stuff like that and and
including mental health. So, I think I'm
going to start talking about the
possibilities and the life after Trump,
life after this ugly, nasty period which
has been fueled by social media.
Absolutely been fueled. And let's leave
that behind. I'm I'm kind of in the
K-pop demon hunter zone right now
because I have small ch I have big
children and small children. But you
listen to Go see that. Have you seen it?
>> No, I haven't. You need to look at me.
You got to go see KDP. There it there's
something in the spirit of that movie
and I think I believe in cultural shifts
and people cultural affecting society
and that's what that movie is about
actually in a in a broad sense. Uh
because the characters are trying to
create a golden dome over people. It's
wonderful. It's wonder it's a wonderful
spirit and I hope we move into that
spirit. Um, that's where I'm going to f
I'm going to focus on the things we can
do to improve people's lives versus
arguing with people who could care less
about people. Carusa, happy new year.
Thanks for joining us.
>> You too.
>> [music]